Typechain Polkadot Grant 2 (#1105)
w3f/Grants-Program: applications/typechain-polkadot-follow-up.md

Interaction with blockchain is done with polkadot.js library, which only has abstract definitions for the contract in use, thus users' code cannot be typesafe. And Typechain-Polkadot can change it.

This Grant is a follow-up to the previous grant, [W3F Grant Proposal](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/pull/992).
We have decided to add new tool that will help developers to easy integrate typechain to their projects, and it will be also compatible with Redspot (if redspot was used to compiler project, you can just left most of things).
We have some updates in our team, so check it out. And also we made more work on Milestone 1 than we thought, so now it'll be easier to add new features to the project, so we considered to reestimate our time.

### Usage of Typechain-compiler

```bash
    npx typechain-compiler --config config.json
```

Also you can set some additional arguments like `--noCompile`, `--noTypechain`, `--release`

Config interface will be something like this:
```typescript
export interface Config {

>     projectFiles: string[]; // Path to all project files, everystring in glob format

Reviewer: What do you mean by "glob format"?

Reviewer 2: "Globs" are the patterns you type when you do stuff like ls *.js on the command line, or put build/* in a .gitignore file

    skipLinting : boolean; // Skip linting of project files
    artifactsPath : string; // Path to artifacts folder, where artifacts will be stored it will save both .contract and .json (contract ABI)
    typechainGeneratedPath : string; // Path to typechain generated folder
}
```

### Project Details

Typesafe contracts' descriptions can be generated automatically by a script, taking a list of ABIs as an input, giving usable TS type definitions and even runtime code as its output.

Given, that a front-end developer needs to do this with every contracts update, such tool would save a lot of time and prevent mistakes of misusing smart contracts. It is installed as a package with built-in CLI.

When contracts descriptions come both with ABI and source code (`*.contract` files), our tool will provide means for deployment as well.

### Ecosystem Fit

- Where and how does your project fit into the ecosystem?

There is a whole side to every project in the ecosystem - that is the front-end side of contract integration, - that will find use for Typechain-Polkadot during development process.

- Who is your target audience?

> Our main target audience is front-end and smart-contract developers of Polkadot projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our main target audience is consisting of front-end and smart-contract developers of Polkadot projects.
```

- What need(s) does your project meet?

> Our project speeds up the front-end integration of Polkadot/Substrate/Kusama contracts. As well as brings type safety to developers' code, when dealing with contracts. For smart contract developers, it simplifies integration test writing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our project speeds up the front-end integration of Polkadot/Substrate/Kusama contracts. It also brings type safety to developers' code, when dealing with contracts. For smart contract developers, it simplifies integration test writing.
```

| 4 | NPM Packaging | Prepare the repository to work through CLI as a package. In TypeScript, as is, without translation to JavaScript. We will publish the package to [NPM repository](https://npmjs.com) and provide set-up instructions (i.e. for [installation](https://github.com/Supercolony-net/typechain-polkadot/blob/master/docs/tech-specs.md#set-up), [input](https://github.com/Supercolony-net/typechain-polkadot/blob/master/docs/tech-specs.md#input) & [output](https://github.com/Supercolony-net/typechain-polkadot/blob/master/docs/tech-specs.md#output)). |

## Current work - Scope of this grant

#### Milestone 2 - Full coverage for ABIs’ types. Contracts deployment.

* **Estimated duration:** 8 weeks
* **FTE:**  2
* **Costs:** 44,800 USD

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| ------ | ----------- | ------------- |
| 0a | License | MIT |
| 0b | Documentation | We will cover new-added features in documentation and usage examples. |
| 1 | Investigation | Broaden types definitions for methods arguments and return values (to full coverage). |

> | 2 | Parser & generators modules | Design and implement a new parser module for ABI JSON to work with different versions of the ABI. Parser's output structure serves as an input for generators. Refactor, replace inlne generation with parser to generator flow. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 2 | Parser & generators modules | Design and implement a new parser module for ABI JSON to work with different versions of the ABI. Parser's output structure serves as an input for generators. Refactor, replace inline generation with parser to generator flow. |
```

| 5 | Article | We will publish an article that explains features of Typechain, how to use it in projects|

#### Milestone 3 - Optimization. Improve type system of the generated code.

* **Estimated duration:** 7 weeks
* **FTE:**  2.5
* **Costs:** 52,500 USD

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
|--------| ----------- | ------------- |
| 0a     | License | MIT |
| 0b     | Documentation | We will cover new-added features in documentation and usage examples. |
| 1      | Precise methods definitions | Refine definitions and bahavior of contracts methods (i.e. methods' arguments and returns), depending on namespace, call options and properties of the method, like `payable` & `mutable`. E.g. preamptive querying for transaction calls, controlled by a call options flag. |
| 2      | Methods' names | Format methods' names in the output from original `MethodTrait::method_name` to more user-friendly `methodName` naming scheme, while resolving overlap in formatted names. |
| 3      | Contract classes extension | Extend generated contract classes with useful properties, normally available on the contract (e.g. address, name, signer, etc.). Rely on usage experience in doing so. |

> | 4      | IDE hints | Prepare generated code to have more informattive IDE hints, based on both JSDoc and output typesystem itself (if needed). Rely on usage experience in doing so. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 4      | IDE hints | Prepare generated code to have more informative IDE hints, based on both JSDoc and the output typesystem itself (if needed). Rely on user experience in doing so. |
```

> | 5      | NPM Package | Translate package's code to JavaScript upon deployment. Provide informattive CLI, when needed. Make sure to have a cross-platform CLI support. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 5      | NPM Package | Translate package's code to JavaScript upon deployment. Provide informative CLI, when needed. Make sure to have cross-platform CLI support. |
```
